
Road Rage Races
---------------

Road Rage Races are an idea I came up with a few years back that I'm trying to resurrect.  I've updated the website (http://ry4an.org/rrr), and tacked on a new tag line: "Light travels at 299,792,460 m/s. Immaturity travels at 5 mph."

In a Road Rage Race the competitors start out in a centrally located parking lot in the Twin Cities area.  They then race to one of five previously agreed upon destinations selected randomly at the time of the race start.  The hitch being that this is done during the height of the evening rush hour keeping top speed in the 10 to 20 mph range.

Particular fun could be had if multiple types of vehicles can be coaxed into participating.  I'd love to see folks on bike vs. foot vs. car vs. bus vs. motorcycle.  I tried to get one of these organized in 2001, but it's hard for everyone to get out of work early.  Maybe a Friday or Saturday night in the busy downtown area would work as well.

What's nice now is that consumer grade GPS devices have come down in price significantly.  Many of the people I'm trying to cajole into playing already have them.  Their position tracking features will allow us to record where each car is at each second.  After the race is over we'll be able to create a detailed replay with almost no effort and great accuracy.










**Comments**


-------------------------

 I'd be up for it, could be a lot of fun. However, don't we all need to get hopped up little sports cars ala The fast and the Furious?

haha, just kidding about that...

-- Louis Duhon 


.. date: 1050987600
.. tags: funny,ideas-unbuilt
