+++
title = "Email Sub-Address Spam Frequency"
date = "2005-12-08T01:00:00"
tags = ["software", "ideas-built"]
+++



My email server is configured such that email to ry4an-anything@ry4an.org gets correctly delivered to me.  The dash and whatever is after it are retained but ignored completely.

When I give an email address to a company, say Northwest Airlines,I'll give them an email address that shows to whom it was given, say ry4an``-nwa``@ry4an.org.  By doing this I'm able to check which companies are giving/selling/leaking my email address to spammers. Some of the leaks are surprising -- just a few weeks after giving out ry4an-philmont for the first time, giving it to the Boy Scouts, I started getting porn spam on it.  When I called to let them know about the leak they assured me it was impossible.

Last month I decided to save all of my inbound spam and run some totals to see which sub-addresses got the most spam.  Here are the counts:

*  6427 total spam messages to ry4an.org in 34 days

*  679 spam messages to plain ry4an*@*ry4an.org

*  the 10 most spammed sub-addresses were

========  ================  ==================================================
Received  Address           Given to
--------  ----------------  --------------------------------------------------
2542      ry4an-slashdot    Posted to http://slashdot.org
252       ry4an-dip         Used in the Diplomacy community
159       ry4an-resume      On my resume_
141       ry4an-yahoo       Given to yahoo.com
125       ry4an-cnet        Byline for some articles I wrote
98        ry4an-oldenburg   Defunct Oldenburg_ project
88        ry4an-poker       Used at https://ry4an.org/poker/
84        ry4an-tclug       Given to the Twin Cities Linux Users' Group
62        ry4an-dns         Used for all my domain registrations
44        ry4an-keysigning  Posted at https://ry4an.org/keysigning/
========  ================  ==================================================

So it looks like the worst offenders aren't comanies to whom I've given my email address, but rather letting them get posted to the internet for automated crawlers to harvest.

Gmail users: You can `do the same thing`_ using the plus sign.

.. _do the same thing: http://groups.google.com/group/Gmail-Users/browse_thread/thread/dd2e8ed697d0e655/91cf1a1b0995912d

**Comments**


-------------------------

Yeah, the one I gave to United actually garners me the most spam.  I emailed them to complain but was brushed off relatively quickly. -- Anonymous

.. _Oldenburg: /unblog/post/2004-06-05/
.. _resume: /unblog/post/../resume/


.. date: 1134021600
.. tags: ideas-built,software
