
The Death of the Har Mar Theater
--------------------------------

Years ago I had a bad movie viewing experience I can't actually recall at Har Mar Theater in Roseville.  As an experiment in how rumors spread and as mild revenge I decided that every time someone mentioned the Har Mar Theater I was going to let them know that once a rat ran across my foot while I was watching a movie there.  It's not true, but I figured it was a story that people would pass on to friends.

In six years of spreading that story at least fifty times I'm sad to say that I never once heard about rats at the Har Mar Theater from anyone, nor did I ever tell someone my story and have them mention they'd heard a similar story elsewhere.

Still, in the end I'm victorious.  As Sarah_ let me know yesterday, `the Har Mar Theater is closing`_. I'm pretty sure that I (and not the new megaplex opening across the highway) am singularly responsible for this happy turn of events.







.. _Sarah: http://mcgoose.com

.. _the Har Mar Theater is closing: http://www.twincities.com/mld/twincities/entertainment/16171478.htm




**Comments**


-------------------------

 This reminds me of the time I put fake fortunes in the fortune cookies at Pioneer Hall and you got the one that said "This cookie is not safe" and you told me about it, not knowing that it was ME that put it in there. -Paul N.

-------------------------

 I remember that.  I'll admit that in my retellings I'm the one who doctored the cookies.  Hope all's well, Paul.


.. date: 1165471200
.. tags: funny
