
View Any Simon Delivers Order
-----------------------------

I forwarded a Simon Delivers order receipt email on to a friend, and he was able to view the order without being logged in as me.  Turns out that if you have a Simon Delivers account at all they let you view any order.  I created a `quick web form`_ to let anyone view any order using my account.  Here's my favorite order so far:
 
===  =============================================================  =======
Qty  Item Name                                                      Each
---  -------------------------------------------------------------  -------
1    Cetaphil Moisturizing Lotion                                   $10.99
2    Coke Diet - 24/12 oz. Cans                                     $7.49
2    Dr Pepper Diet - 24/12 oz. Cans                                $7.49
2    Hershey's Milk Chocolate Candy Bars - 6 ct.                    $3.49
2    Life Savers Wintergreen Flavored - Individually Wrapped - Bag  $1.89
1    Nabisco Nutter Butter Peanut Butter Sandwich Cookies           $3.79
1    Nestea Cool Lemon Iced Tea Fridge Pack - 12/12 oz. Cans        $4.19
2    Pepsi - 24/12 oz. Cans                                         $7.49
2    Pepsi 8/12 oz. Bottles                                         $3.69
1    Seven-Up - 12/12 oz. Cans                                      $4.19
2    Seven-Up Diet - 12/12 oz. Cans                                 $4.19
===  =============================================================  =======


I'm sure fixing this problem is simple as adding whatever the .asp equivalent of this is:


::

   if (currentUser != order.user) {
       return;
   }


Funny, though.

If you `try you own`_ and stumble across any funny ones put the order number in the comments.







.. _quick web form:
.. _try you own: http:/simon/view




**Comments**


-------------------------

 3885593 - Five boxes of cereal and two gallons of milk. -- Nick

-------------------------

 2566520 - 15 gallons of bottled water, Milk Bones, and an issue of Minnesota Parent magazine.  -- Dan

-------------------------




.. date: 1171432800
.. tags: ideas-built,software
