Android Fragmentation Analogy
=============================

This whole post should just be a single tweet, but somehow it doesn't feel safe
to say anything comparing Android and iOS development, even implicitly, without
five paragraphs full of disclaimers.  First, here's the tweet:

.. pull-quote::

   Developers complaining about fragmentation on the Android platform are like
   fashion designers complaining about size fragmentation on the human body.

Expanding on that I'd say, yes, it's easier to make something that fits
beautifully if you know the exact size and shape you're targeting and don't have
to think about how it will look on other form factors / body shapes.  Some
designers create clothes for only the fashion model body shape, and some create
clothes that fit a wider variety of body shapes.

An average Android application that doesn't do anything particularly out of the
norm visually and avoids undocumented behaviors, does just fine on any device at
its target version or later.  It might not be visually stunning, but it's worth
noting that "just fine" is always available, and plenty of great apps have taken
it.

On the other hand, developers that reach for visual excellence on the Android
platform *do* have a hard row to hoe, in the same way that making clothing
that's flattering on all body shapes is very hard.  Things have to be
extensively tweaked and tested.  If you're building Glipboard or a game engine
on Android, then I totally get that the variety of resolutions, form factors,
and input options makes your job harder.

To be clear, I'm not drawing any analogies between iOS devices and fashion
models excepting the uniformity of shape/form factor, and I'm not saying
anything particularly negative about designers that stop at size two or
developers that only do iOS.

I'm just saying that Android fragmentation isn't inherently a problem, and that
while it makes stunningly beautiful applications harder, it doesn't make the
basic "getting stuff done" application that represents 99% of both the iOS and
Android app stores any harder.  *Most* iOS and Android apps are just using the
usual controls in the usual way, and wouldn't be affected by Android
fragmentation in any meaningful way.

.. read_more

Background: Just to put it out there I've developed a lot of software, but very
little for both iOS and Android.  I've bought two iOS devices and three Android
devices, and like and dislike different things about both platforms.  I know
nothing more about fashion design than I've learned watching a few seasons of
project runway and shopping with non-size-zero women.

.. tags: software
